>> Steve Kinney: Right, so we're gonna
build this markdown text editor.
Markdown it's called Fire Sale
cuz like price markdowns,
it was a stretch but work with me here.
So there's a repo that is
should be in the notes, and
it is Fire Sale FEM v2 cuz this
is the second version of it.
And, what's gonna happen,
let's actually take it for spin.
What's gonna happen is we have some
markdown that we right over on
the left side, and
then we see it rendered on the right
side will be able to save file system.
We go to export .HTML BIBA open up
text files and markdown files on our
computer and edit them, we're gonna
save over them, so on and so forth.
And like you can see from those two
currently disabled buttons that will be
able to show it in the file system, and
open it in the default application.
Not bad for
our first Electron application.
Cool, so let's get into it.
So, here I am in my terminal, which again,
as I mentioned before is
an Electron application.
And, I can go ahead and let's take
a little tour of the code using,
this is cute right,
another Electron application, right?
We're all having fun
with this running gag?
All right so, let's take it for a spin.
I have the dependencies installed,
but if you don't,
this is a really great
time to run npm install.
And hopefully,
by the time I'm done with tour, it's done.
So, a lot of the package JSON
is what we'd normally expect.
Again, we have this brand new app
/main.js and you if you look at my
directory structure, there's just
a JavaScript file called main.js.
We've got some devDependencies,
some of which we will be
using later in the workshop.
Start is just running electron dot.
I don't have Electron globally installed.
If you run like npm start it says
this electron here will be from
your node modules directory.
So once you do an npm install,
you'll have a project specific
version of electron and
that version right now is 3.0.
Quick note on version numbers,
which is basically, for
the longest time electron was sub 1.0,
right, 0.13, 0.14, 0.15.
All right, when the API stabilized,
it hit 1.0.
Right, and this is incredibly
important if you're writing a book and
you're keeping track of version
numbers is hit 2.0 and then like three
months later it hit 3.0 because they
went to a new version in scheme.
And those basically
tracking versions of V8 and
node which kind of has those move up,
the version number goes up.
So, it's not necessarily always breaking
API changes, it is also just versions
of V8 as the increments you kind of know
what you're working with in that case.
So, if you are watching this course later,
you're like it's 4.0 now.
This is likely still,
most of the content of this course will,
knock on wood, be very valid and useful.
There will be minor API changes,
some of them just caused mostly by
internal changes and
stuff along those lines.
But the API, in my experience,
has been incredibly stable.
Again, with the little parts of like,
API behaves very differently cuz of
the curious concerns in Chrome,
and stuff along those lines.
So, just wanted to point that out.
So to start, we'll do electron dot so
on and so forth.
My main.js fault right
now is pretty simple.
It's a console log with this as
an Electron application, sound good?
Let's take it for a spin.
>> Steve Kinney: And,
few things to notice here.
One, my console.log works.
So that's the first really great and
wonderful part of this is that
it didn't crash and burn.
Two, is that you'll see that
it's still hanging there,
right, you can you see that little but
it didn't put me back to the command line.
And, for you, you should likely see
either in your task bar in Windows or
in your Doc, a little Electron icon and
if you command tab you
should also see it as well.
I have my doc on the other side,
let me actually switch over.
>> Steve Kinney: You can see I've
got the Electron icon right here.
Now, you might be like, I don't see
an application, which makes total sense.
We talked about the main.js
as kind of like your server.
We haven't actually spun
up a user interface yet.
So, let's go ahead and
do that because this is the world most
boring Electron application right now.
And it's not doing anything that I could
have done with a very simple node process.
This is also considering
it's just a console log,
the world most boring node application as
well, so we should fix it on either level.
So go ahead, and if we hit Ctrl+C,
we're back on the command line.